# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Number of Levels / Length of Gameplay - The current state of the game only has 2 levels and neither are very long.
* Support for Other Devices - The game is only supported on PC and Mac (with the support on Mac not being great) and cannot be played on other devices.
* Multiplayer - The current state of the game has no support for multiplayer.&#x20;
* Things to do - The game only has one type of enemy and one type of obstacle, it also only has one objective.



## Maintenance

As of right now I know of no bugs within my game that need fixing, however this doesn't mean It doesn't need maintaining in its current state. I may also wish to add to the game in the future, this inevitably would require more maintenance and would probably also make maintaining the the game more complex.

### Current Size

If I wanted to keep the game the same size and didn't want to add any new features, maintenance would be very simple and i would have to only follow a short term development plan. I would have to address any features that (as of now) i do not consider wholly complete and adapt them within a development cycle, which would probably only require small additions to my code. I would be able to do all of this myself as I am very familiar with my own code and know where my game may need a bit of altering to make it run more smoothly.

### Room for Growth&#x20;

In order to further adapt my game in the future I would first need to complete what i said i would do in the 'Current Size' section so that I would have a much more complete game to springboard off of. Once I have done this I can look at what the current limitations of my game are and begin to think about what I may want to change / add in the future. Of course any new additions or changes made to the game bring with them new bugs or problems that I will have to recognise and fix.

Depending on the scope of what could be added to the game, the complexity of development could increase exponentially. With more complex code, comes more problems and more time consuming maintenance. While there are a few popular games that have been developed by only one person, namely 'Stardew Valley', once a game gets past a certain size or complexity it would become virtually impossible to maintain and update it myself. Therefore, If i was to expand the game largely in the future, it may require a team of people helping with development and maintenance. Each member would have to have a good knowledge of the code and the game itself, so that they can understand how the game should look or run and know how to get it to that point.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes and Additions

* Enemy and Player hit-boxes - Hit-boxes in kaboom are judged based upon the highest and lowest x and y positions on a sprite and form a box around this. This means that any empty space that falls within this space counts toward the Hit-box. So I need to find a way to better contour the hit-boxes of a sprite so that the collisions in the game aren't just from nothing touching nothing.
* Pause Menu or Level Finish Menu - I have not as of yet added a pause or completion menu to my game, these features would greatly improve the playability of my game. The pause menu would be accessible by pressing a button like ESC and would (obviously) pause the level. The Completion Menu would appear when you complete the level and would display your time and would allow you to progress to the next level.
* More Levels - Quite simply my game needs a few more levels.
* Level Navigation - If I add more levels to my game i will need to add a level navigation menu to my game. It would be accessible from the start menu and would allow you to select a level once you have unlocked it by getting to it normally.&#x20;

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* Platform Support - Eventually i would like to develop touch controls for my game so that it can be played on mobile and other devices such as iPads. It would probably also help for the game to be an actual application and not just a website, this would make it easier for the game to run on mobile devices.
* Application - I would like my game to eventually become its own application rather than having it be played through a website on a web browser. Having it as an app would probably decrease the load on a computer running it as it only has to run the game rather than the browser as well.
* Levels - Although I have already mentioned it in the Short Term Bug Fixes, I would like the game to have alot more levels and have these levels be more diverse in play style.
