# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics&#x20;

### Movement

The movement of the player will remain quite simple, with the character being able to jump, walk/run and dash. Similar to most other games - the player will be able to walk around at a constant speed using the arrow keys. The player will be able to jump using the space bar, this will probably be limited to a constant height. I may try to make it so that the longer you hold down the space bar the longer the jump charges and the larger the jump height - however, this may not be necessary in the long run. Dashing will be a short boost of speed that can damage enemies and move the player quicker, using down and either left or right arrow keys will preform a Dash.&#x20;

### Physics

#### Collisions&#x20;

The player will collide with anything that isn't the background. Upon colliding with an enemy or obstacle the player will die. All platforms will be solid causing the player to collide with them and be able to use them to navigate the level. The player will collide with 'Coins' to determine the score at the end of the level.

#### Gravity&#x20;

Gravity is pretty self explanatory, the player will always fall down when in the air. However certain objects such as platforms will not.&#x20;

### Controls

I will be using the standard PC controls layout of WASD to move, SPACEBAR to jump and, LEFT CLICK to attack. There will probably be other keys for different operations but I wont go into that now. Keyboard and Mouse will be well suited for assigning all the keys I may or may not need. Also a good chunk of Gamers are PC based or regularly use keyboard and mouse so it will be easy to learn the controls for most players.



## Level Design

### View Centered on the Player&#x20;

The Camera player i will remain centered on the player and follow the player at all times allowing the player to have more freedom traversing the level as a pose to average sidescroller platformers.&#x20;

### Enemies

Enemies are an effective way of making the level more challenging for the player. By adding a range of enemies spread out around the level it will stop the player simply running through each level with ease - this would be extremely boring to play.&#x20;

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
