# 1.4b Computational Methods

Computational Thinking is a way of approaching a problem and finding the most efficient solution that problem.

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualization

Abstraction is a method of removing any unnecessary details from ( in this case ) the design frame, for example for my game it is unnecessary for me to animate some of the sprites, so i would remove that from the design frame in order to allocate myself more time to focus on necessary features. Thinking Abstractly is import in order to create a functional, complete game within a certain amount of time. The features I will be focusing on are:

* Level Layout - The layout doesn't need to be overtly complex it only needs to have platforms, traps / obstacles and enemies.
* Enemies - The enemies need to patrol an area and kill the player on collision.
* Start Screen - There needs to be a simple, user friendly menu so that the player can actually start the game.
* Movement - Keep movement down to the two fundamental movements; Jumping (vertical), horizontal movement

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking Ahead is a vital part of the Design and Development cycle of my game production, thinking ahead is (in context) considering what you want your final product to be and deciding what procedures and inputs you need to get you to that point. This is necessary to streamline the development process by knowing what you will need to do going into it.

Some features are more important to complete than others ,for example, having the player be able to move is more important than adding puzzles to the level. Thinking ahead would allow me to consider things like this and complete them before the less necessary features of the game.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the process of breaking a large problem into a few or many smaller and more manageable sub-problems. These sub-problems are more understandable and easier to 'tackle' (programme).&#x20;

This is important as the concept of creating a whole game could be quite overwhelming, but if you break it down into smaller parts like: making the player move; adding a start screen; adding enemies; etc. With each of these sub-problems being more manageable, it gives you - as the developer - a better layout for creating this game, making the task less daunting.

In each development cycle I will need to focus on one of these sub-problems, which in turn will total up to my desired outcome, this allows me to focus on development without being overwhelmed by a large workload.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is about discerning what decision needs to be made when something happens or a condition is met. Logical Thinking is important as it allows me to map out any decision points within my game and have the game change to suit these decisions.

* If a key is pressed the program needs to decide how that will reflect within the game - e.g. if 'D' is pressed the player needs to move right.
* If the player collides with something the program must decide whether that makes a value go up or if the level needs to end.
*

## Thinking Concurrently

Thinking concurrently is about determining which processes need to occur simultaneously. Games make it appear as if they run concurrently by having multiple things happen at once, having multiple things done at the same time (where possible) increases the efficiency of the game overall. You can 'see' this happen in many games by looking at the frame rate or refresh rate in which actions and changes are shown by the updating dozens of times a second. Examples of Concurrent Processes include:

* The Game Display needs to refresh as players or enemies move across the screen
* When a player collides with an enemy, the game needs to end the level
* If the player collides with a token, the total \_\_\_\_ will need to increase

